---
lip: 1
title: protein expression in ecoli and purification
author: Niklas Rindtorff <niklas@labdao.xyz>
type: Laboratory Service
status: Draft
created: 2022-06-13
---

## Simple Summary

This laboratory services enables scientist


## Abstract

The following standard allows for the expression of a target protein in E. coli with subsequent purification of the protein. The service provider: 
1. receives an amino acid sequence
2. expresses and purifies a protein given standardized instructions in E.coli
3. returns quality control and sample information


## Motivation

A standard interface for protein expression in E. coli enables computational scientists to submit a request for protein expression programmatically. The minted lab-NFT contains information about the quality of the purified sample and confers ownership to the owner of the token.


## Specification

```
{
  "name": "reverse-complement", # a standardized name for the performed process
  "description": "the reverse complement of a DNA sequence",
  "user": "0x64BC15E0A5A12dDbe321EEDD832d057775D11F56"
  "parameters": "ipfs://QmZ9oReVUiNQSc9GaqqTEPUW3XHo6eprVSa9nqbGNotP8B"
  "input": "ipfs://QmaQv91AUmu4wDNiNc8exUrSrDnZ65YBEXuTrxSJSnJbcz",
  "provider": # provider wallet address goes here
  "execution": # object URI containing details about the execution environment goes here
  "output": # object URI containing a referenced .fasta file
}
```

user 
can be an array of contract addresses

ERC721 ownership - fractional ownership possible
ERC20 access

## Token
### Methods

**NOTES**:
 - The following specifications use syntax from Solidity `0.4.17` (or above)
 - Callers MUST handle `false` from `returns (bool success)`.  Callers MUST NOT assume that `false` is never returned!


#### name

Returns the name of the token - e.g. `"MyToken"`.

OPTIONAL - This method can be used to improve usability,
but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT expect these values to be present.


``` js
function name() public view returns (string)
```


#### symbol

Returns the symbol of the token. E.g. "HIX".

OPTIONAL - This method can be used to improve usability,
but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT expect these values to be present.

``` js
function symbol() public view returns (string)
```



#### decimals

Returns the number of decimals the token uses - e.g. `8`, means to divide the token amount by `100000000` to get its user representation.

OPTIONAL - This method can be used to improve usability,
but interfaces and other contracts MUST NOT expect these values to be present.

``` js
function decimals() public view returns (uint8)
```


#### totalSupply

Returns the total token supply.

``` js
function totalSupply() public view returns (uint256)
```



#### balanceOf

Returns the account balance of another account with address `_owner`.

``` js
function balanceOf(address _owner) public view returns (uint256 balance)
```



#### transfer

Transfers `_value` amount of tokens to address `_to`, and MUST fire the `Transfer` event.
The function SHOULD `throw` if the message caller's account balance does not have enough tokens to spend.

*Note* Transfers of 0 values MUST be treated as normal transfers and fire the `Transfer` event.

``` js
function transfer(address _to, uint256 _value) public returns (bool success)
```



#### transferFrom

Transfers `_value` amount of tokens from address `_from` to address `_to`, and MUST fire the `Transfer` event.

The `transferFrom` method is used for a withdraw workflow, allowing contracts to transfer tokens on your behalf.
This can be used for example to allow a contract to transfer tokens on your behalf and/or to charge fees in sub-currencies.
The function SHOULD `throw` unless the `_from` account has deliberately authorized the sender of the message via some mechanism.

*Note* Transfers of 0 values MUST be treated as normal transfers and fire the `Transfer` event.

``` js
function transferFrom(address _from, address _to, uint256 _value) public returns (bool success)
```



#### approve

Allows `_spender` to withdraw from your account multiple times, up to the `_value` amount. If this function is called again it overwrites the current allowance with `_value`.

**NOTE**: To prevent attack vectors like the one [described here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YLPtQxZu1UAvO9cZ1O2RPXBbT0mooh4DYKjA_jp-RLM/) and discussed [here](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/20#issuecomment-263524729),
clients SHOULD make sure to create user interfaces in such a way that they set the allowance first to `0` before setting it to another value for the same spender.
THOUGH The contract itself shouldn't enforce it, to allow backwards compatibility with contracts deployed before

``` js
function approve(address _spender, uint256 _value) public returns (bool success)
```


#### allowance

Returns the amount which `_spender` is still allowed to withdraw from `_owner`.

``` js
function allowance(address _owner, address _spender) public view returns (uint256 remaining)
```



### Events


#### Transfer

MUST trigger when tokens are transferred, including zero value transfers.

A token contract which creates new tokens SHOULD trigger a Transfer event with the `_from` address set to `0x0` when tokens are created.

``` js
event Transfer(address indexed _from, address indexed _to, uint256 _value)
```



#### Approval

MUST trigger on any successful call to `approve(address _spender, uint256 _value)`.

``` js
event Approval(address indexed _owner, address indexed _spender, uint256 _value)
```



## Implementation

There are already plenty of ERC20-compliant tokens deployed on the Ethereum network.
Different implementations have been written by various teams that have different trade-offs: from gas saving to improved security.

#### Example implementations are available at
- [OpenZeppelin implementation](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-solidity/blob/9b3710465583284b8c4c5d2245749246bb2e0094/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol)
- [ConsenSys implementation](https://github.com/ConsenSys/Tokens/blob/fdf687c69d998266a95f15216b1955a4965a0a6d/contracts/eip20/EIP20.sol)


## History

Historical links related to this standard:

- Original proposal from Vitalik Buterin: https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Standardized_Contract_APIs/499c882f3ec123537fc2fccd57eaa29e6032fe4a
- Reddit discussion: https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/3n8fkn/lets_talk_about_the_coin_standard/
- Original Issue #20: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/20



## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).



